[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's
look at our app in page.
I've implied a couple of things
by this silly little design.
One is that we've got a little carousel
here that I should be able to go left and
right in my carousel.
You'll notice that it's not functional,
we're gonna let you wire up
the events to make that functional.
And then you notice this big blue
area over here on the right.
What does that thing signify?
Essentially that signifies a details pane,
that if I were to click one of these
items in my carousel list, it would show
up a set of details about that person.
So my stupid little example here is,
this is like a page for
a company that provides tech support and
you're trying to schedule one of these
individuals to come out to your office and
help you with your computer.
So you've got a list of the available tech
support technicians that you can click on
and see their details and
figure out who you wanna schedule, okay.
So it's just my basic little metaphor for
what this app is supposed to be.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH] So
we're gonna wire up these events and
these functionalities first just
getting our feet wet with using jQuery
to do a couple of basic tasks.
But our much more important focus here is
on how the code that I've already written,
how can we improve it
to organize it better?
And that's really where we're gonna
solidify a lot of the discussions that we
were just having about what's the purpose
of a module and a closure, whatever,
we're gonna see why that's such
a useful tool for code organization.
So starting with the first task,
it says open up header.js.
So let's do that.
In your directory you're
gonna have a header.js file.
Js, header.js.
it's empty.
That's super not helpful, right.
This is where you get to write some code,
right.
Now what's the purpose, what are we trying
to have it do, it says open up the file.
Let's go back to the Read Me.
What's the purpose?
In this file you're going to attach
event handlers for the header links.
When you use a jQuery document ready
event handler to make sure that your
code doesn't run too early.
So first step, if you haven't
had much experience with jQuery,
is you're gonna want, we can take out
that comment, you're gonna wanna say,
(document).ready.
And all the code that we're
gonna write right now.
We're gonna put inside
of that ready function.
What document ready does, it is a special
event that your browser fires that lets
you know that the DOM has been parsed and
it's ready to go.
[COUGH]
So
if we're gonna do anything
with the DOM like we are here.
We wanna make sure that
we're in a ready state.
Now let's go back to the design.
If we look at the design here.
You'll notice that I got
a couple of links up here.
That imply or they link to pages.
Like one is for registering,
the ones for log in.
If I click them right now,
you notice I do a full page refresh,
full page load to one of those other
files which is not at all what I want.
What I want user experience wise,
is that clicking on one of the links
pops up that page in a modal, okay.
Now the modal already exists.
You don't have to define the modal or
its CSS or anything.
But we need to actually invoke that
model and have it load the code,
load the URL from one of these
links that's clicked on.
Okay.
So our first step is to
set up a click handler.
And we wanna figure out on what do I
want to attach my click handler to.
Well there are some links there
that we wanna attach to, so
you should probably
open up the index.html.
And get a little bit familiar with
the markup that I've provided.
>> Kyle Simpson: Specifically, I'll call
your attention to these links right here,
which are in fact the register and
login links.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
what we wanna do is get those links and
attach event handlers to them so
that when they are clicked
they fire our event handlers
rather than just doing a navigate.
Now I've provided these rel attributes
on all of these different elements
that you need to interact with.
You notice I'm saying the rel = and then
I have a value in there like js-register.
There's lots of different
schools of thought.
We're on task 1, it's being asked in
the chatroom what tasks, where on task 1.
And we're on the first step of task 1.
There's lots of different schools of
thought of how from your JavaScript code
should you figure out what elements
in the DOM you want to interact with.
A lot of people like to put
an ID on their element and
then look up the element by its ID.
It's a very common and very powerful,
practice your pattern.
I'm not a big fan of that approach and
the reason is that IDs are usually
more used in your CSS.
If I open up the CSS file
that's provided with the site.
Probably the part that I'm least
proud of because I'm not really a CSS
person at all.
But you notice in my CSS, I have several
places where I'm referencing elements
by their ID like pound page and I've got
a few down here like pound carousel.
IDs are much more commonly
associated with attaching
styles to a specific element in your page.
And the problem is not on small projects
but on big projects what you'll
very quickly learn in your JavaScript
career, is that it's very common, for
somebody to come through and re-factor the
markup of your page and change out the IDs
or to change the way the CSS works and
to pick different ID values.
And if your JavaScript is also
relying on that information,
then your JavaScript breaks.
So it's just one more piece that you have
to maintain, if you change an ID and
it's used for CSS and you change an ID and
it's also used for JavaScript,
now you're not gonna fix
them in both places.
So I prefer.
I don't care what happens to the CSS
folks, I'm not a CSS person so
they can do whatever they want.
But in the JavaScript world I don't
like to use ID's because I don't
like to have to worry that
somebody is gonna come back and
make me have to change a bunch of my code.
>> Speaker 2: Just a quick [INAUDIBLE]
smacks guy has the same thing to say
about IDs in relationship to CSS.
>> Kyle Simpson: Good,
he's a smart dude so
that probably means that I'm just
cribbing off of some other smart person.
So, I don't like to use
IDs in my JavaScript.
A lot of people use IDs in JavaScript and
class names only for CSS.
Still it's not my particular brand.
So another thing that people will do
is they will attach a data attribute.
That's a new HTML5 thing.
It'll attach a data attribute for
looking at elements.
My preferred approach,
this is all just a preamble to say,
my preferred approach is
to use the rel attribute.
The reason I like this
attribute is that it is valid
on nearly every single
element in your page.
But almost all elements,
it doesn't mean anything on them.
So it's just sitting there valid but
it has no meaning.
Which means it's a nice little
like hook for us to use.
>> Speaker 3: What was
its purpose originally?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
what rel means, is relationship.
Okay?
Now look at, for example,
rel nofollow on an a tag.
That's actually a real thing.
That's not something I've made up.
Rel nofollow on <a> tags.
What that tells a search engine is.
The relationship between
the page that I'm linking to and
my page is no relationship at all.
Don't follow it,
don't give it any search engine juice.
And that's a very common
thing in the SEO world
is to put nofollow
relationships on your links.
For pages that you're linking to for
information but
you're not endorsing them in any way.
Okay, so here rel means
the relationship between my page and
some other page.
Another place that rel is used that you'll
very commonly see is on the link tag.
And here the relationship is pointing at
another file, not a URL, but another file.
And it's saying the relationship
between that file and
my file is that I want to
use him as a stylesheet.
>> Kyle Simpson: But
in both of those places,
relationship means relationship
between myself and some other entity.
So I, Kyle, took that and
extended it slightly,
I pushed the envelope a little bit
further and I said, if I wanted to
define a relationship between a DOM
element and my JavaScript code.
Then I can use the rel attribute
to give it some identifier for
the relationship between element and
JavaScript code.
So that's why I like rel is that
it defines a relationship here.
In this case it gives an identifier
that I can hook to, and the relationship
is telling me that's something I'm only
gonna use for JavaScript purposes.
Not gonna use it for
any other purpose other than JavaScript.
>> Kyle Simpson: Lots of different
schools of thought on it.
You don't have to get too wrapped up
if you totally disagree with me and
you like to use ideas or
that's the way you end up
if the company does that where you work,
that's totally fine too.
But I like to use rel attribute, so
the code that we're working with, that'll
be kinda already going with the flow.